Hi guys, and welcome back.
In this video we're going to learn about destructuring.
Sounds complicated but it's actually really straightforward,
and it's gonna come in really handy.
It makes our programmes much more easy to read.
Imagine you've got a tuple of currencies.
Remember, this is how we can create a tuple.
You can put the brackets in here or not
if you don't want to.
You can, just like you do currencies equal 0.8 comma 1.2
you can do USD, EUR equal currencies.
And what this means is we're going to get
the first value of the tuple
and put it into a new variable called USD.
And we're gonna take the second value of the tuple
and we're gonna put into a new variable called EUR.
So you can imagine that 0.8
is the United States dollar conversion rate
and 1.2 is the Euro conversion rate
from pounds of course.
So this is called destructuring.
It is taking a tuple, such as our currencies tuple,
and turning it into multiple variables by this method.
It's particularly interesting when you've got something
like a list of tuples, say a list where the elements
are all your friends names and ages.
Rolf 25, Anne 37, Charlie 31, and Bob 22.
Here we've got a list with four tuples
and each tuple has a name and an age.
Traditionally, we could do something like this.
For friend in friends
and we could print the friend.
Now if we run this you'll see that Python
prints out each of the tuples.
However, using destructuring we can take directly
instead of friend the name and the age.
And what Python does is it says,
okay each friend is a tuple so we can just take the name
and the age as the first and second element of the tuple.
And then you can print something like name and age.
So this looks a little bit nicer
but of course we can use them
inside an f string if we prefer.
And that will be even nicer.
The reason I'm showing you this
is because this stuff here, destructuring inside a for loop
is something we're gonna use in future videos
and it also makes your programmes easier to read.
If you didn't do this you would have to do
for friend in friends and then name, age equal friend.
Or even worse, name equal friend zero
and age equal friend one.
These are all equivalent,
I will just keep them here for you.
So these are equivalent but of course
this is much longer, this is slightly shorter
and just putting that here is the shortest of them all
and also the most readable once you know what it means.
You do have to know what it means
before this makes any sense of course
but what it does, you'll see that,
okay each element in friends has two values, name and age,
and we can extract them from the tuples as we iterate.
Again, that process is called destructuring.
So I hope you've learned something.
In the future we will make more use of this.
Thanks for joining me and I'll see you in the next video.